Add info about interactive GPUs (#970)
CHTC/chtc-website-source: _uw-research-computing/htc-interactive-gpu-jobs.md

---
highlighter: none
layout: guide
title: Interactive GPU Jobs
guide:
    category: Special use cases
    tag:
        - htc
---

## Introduction

This guide shows you how to run interactive GPU jobs on CHTC's High Throughput Computing (HTC) system.

CHTC's HTC system is primarily meant for submitting batches of large workloads. However, a few resources are set aside for testing and troubleshooting GPU jobs interactively.

> > ### 📢 Interactive GPU policy starting April 13, 2026

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ### 📢 Interactive GPU policy starting April 22, 2026
```

{:.tip-header}

> `condor_ssh_to_job` will be unavailable for jobs running on CHTC’s shared GPU machines.
> 
> <details>
> <summary>What’s staying the same</summary>
> <ul>
> <li>If your group has owned or prioritized access to GPUs, you can still to connect to running jobs on said GPUs using <code>condor_ssh_to_job</code>.</li>
> <li>All users can still submit interactive GPU jobs using the <code>condor_submit -i command</code>.</li>
> </ul>
> </details> 
>
> <details>
> <summary>Why we are making the change</summary>

> > <ul><li>Some users have been abusing the <code>condor_ssh_to_job</code> functionality by submitting long-running sleep jobs, then connecting periodically to run interactive commands while leaving the GPU unused for long periods of time (or worse, simulating work on the GPU that is not productive). This hoarding of resources is not in the spirit of our commitment to fair share access to computing, and so we are removing this functionality from our shared use GPUs.</li></ul>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> <ul><li>Some users have been using the <code>condor_ssh_to_job</code> functionality to submit long-running sleep jobs, then connect periodically to run interactive commands while leaving the GPU unused for long periods of time. This usage pattern by others limits YOUR throughput, particularly for high-end GPUs, so we are removing this functionality from our shared use GPUs. </li></ul>
```

| Number of slots | GPU model | Number of GPUs per slot | GPU Memory |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 4 | NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2080 Ti | 1 | 10.6 GB |
| 1 | NVIDIA A100 | 1 | 39.5 GB |

The slots in the table above *only* run interactive GPU jobs. Interactive GPU jobs can still run on other slots on shared GPU machines, depending on availability upon submission.

**All interactive GPU jobs have a maximum runtime of 4 hours and are limited to 1 GPU.** Interactive multi-GPU jobs are not permitted on CHTC's shared GPU machines.

You will not be able to run `condor_ssh_to_job` on noninteractive GPU jobs.

### Researcher-owned GPUs

If you have access to researcher-owned GPU machines, you may submit interactive jobs within those machines' resource limits. `condor_ssh_to_job` is permitted on these machines.

## Submit an interactive GPU job

1. Ensure your resource requirements allow you to match to an interactive GPU slot.
1. Submit your job with the `-i` command.
    
   ```
   condor_submit -i <submit_file>
   ```
   {:.term}
1. When your job starts, you will see your prompt change, for example:

   ```
   [netid@gpulab2001 ~]$
   ```

>    {:.term}

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't they also see a message like `Welcome to machineXXX`? I think that's a better indicator than the prompt changing and worth including here.
